# Habitica

Habitica is a habit tracker application that incorporates goals into a role-playing game. The application is so designed that it treats your real life like a game. It is available to users on the Web, Android and iOS. A user levels up and gains gold, as they succeed in completing the goals that they have set. They can track and manage their habits, daily goals, and to-do list using this application and lose health if they fail to complete any of these. The gold won can be used to buy rewards, which can either be custom rewards, like treating yourself to a movie or going out for dinner; or some in-game features like battle armour, mysterious pets, magic skills and even quests. The user levels up by gaining these attribute points and after reaching Level 10, he gets to choose a class which helps him during the quest, as depending upon the class chose, he will either be a warrior, mage, healer or a rogue.
I have been using this application since the last week and it has really helped me manage my time and day. It helps me maintain a balance between my tasks and my rewards. Until recently, I would slack of somewhere during the week but this application has helped me take control and I don’t treat myself to the rewards until and unless I have completed all the tasks. 
WIIFM? It gives the user the flexibility of splitting your goals under 3 categories – habits, dailies and to-dos. Hence, depending on the task you can classify your tasks. Also, the to-do tasks can be broken down into smaller tasks, so it really helps in planning and organising when it comes to tasks with deadlines.
Habitica is one of the best productivity applications because of its interactive design and player driven approach. The design is simple as well as appealing. It allows the user to design the schedule according to their daily routine and lifestyle. The application compels the user to follow through on habits, dailies and to-dos. It assists the user in breaking bad habits and develop good ones while offering them rewards which was not a part of any other productivity application that was in existence already. Contrarily, there are just a few things that don’t work right for the application. It does not open or work without internet connection. To ensure user access all the time without any constraints, I would like to modify the app as such to make it work offline and when connected to a network, the progress can be synced online.

# Microsoft Pix

Microsoft Pix is one of the best camera apps for iPhone & iPads. It provides all the functions that a normal camera app does and some more. These add ons are what have been luring users to try this new application and get hooked onto it. To start with, it conveniently lets the user add a contact in their phone-book by taking a picture of their business card. It also gives an option to add them to your Linked In account directly. Pix captures burst photos on a single click and uses Artificial Intelligence to choose the best one and gives the user from one upto three images from the shot. If the camera senses some interesting motion in the frame, it converts the burst photos into a live image. Unlike most other camera applications, not only does it detect and captures photos of documents and whiteboards, but also cleans the image for clarity of the text. Another feature that makes Pix different from other camera applications is Photosynth. While in other camera applications, Panorama only enables the user to capture from side to side, but in Pix, Photosynth lets the user freely pan and capture from side to side, up and down, back and forth. Recently, Microsoft introduced another novel feature into Pix. From the video recorded, Pix selects three high quality frames which have non-blurry photos, faces with eyes open, interesting scenes and formats them into a comic strip. While shooting a time lapse, the hyperlapse feature assists the user to shoot more stabilized videos.
Even though many camera-based applications exist in the App-store, but I believe this is one of the best applications as apart from the basic functionality of capturing pictures, it extends its performance to many more services. Pix’s camera not only focuses on human faces, but also prioritizes them for exposure and focus. For people who aren’t really good at editing pictures, downloading this application is a must.  Pix automatically adjusts its settings when it detects a face in the picture, so that the user gets the best possible shot under any light conditions. Apart from all these, the additional features added in the application like Photosynth and Pix Comics, have never been seen before.
Pix offers multiple styles to transform photos in a work of art. The application’s auto-enhancement capabilities improve white balance, tone correction and sharpness. With the Photosynth functionality, the user does not need to compromise on the frame size and can freely capture. Pix’s AI is one of the best features that would lure a user as in a moment of hurry, while using any other camera application, the chances of getting a clear picture would be minimal, in contrary to the best picture that was chosen from the burst that Pix’s camera clicks. This is definitely an app worth downloading and using.
One of the reasons, why Microsoft Pix is making its way into people’s phones is that it reduces a lot of noise from the pictures shot, thus providing distinct clarity from the normal camera or any other came based application. It handles face illumination and backlighting better than any other camera-based application. All the features that Pix has integrated are irresistible. There is no need to save business cards anymore. You just need to scan it and it would be added to your signed-in LinkedIn account. It even lets you compare multiple photos so that you can see the difference. Also, the application adjusts its settings automatically when it detects a face in the picture so that the user gets the best possible shot under any light conditions. It has a simple UI and hence, it is not difficult to use the application. However, the application has a few shortcomings. There is no option to shoot slow motion videos. Neither is there any option to manually edit the pictures. The camera is not able to adapt to low light shooting and does not perform up to the mark in that case. To give the user some flexibility, I would like to suggest a modification to add some options like a few filters to manually edit the photos.
